Project Goal : 
Determine how smokefree indoors legislation, tobacco tax legislation, and tobacco health policy funding from 1996 to 2013 have 
impacted tobacco usage rates by State in the United States. 

Data Understanding :
We collected our data from the CDC public website.We aggregated 5 different datasets(Smokefree Indoors Restrictions, Smokefree Indoors Penalties
,Funding Per Capita,Cigarette Tax/ pack, Little Cigar Tax/ pack) by state and year. 

We analysed the percentage of smokers of different age groups across different years ie; from 1996 to 2013. The survey question was-- 
"do you smoke now?"-- and the answers were yes or no. As you can expect ppl from the age group 25 to 44 have the highest percentage of 
smoking followed by ppl in the age group of 18 to 24 years. And less of the people in the age group 65 years and older currently smoke


Modeling Approach :

1)Correlation Analysis: The comparison of cigarette taxes and little cigar taxes, the strongest correlation within the data, shows that 
many states do not tax little cigars at all, some states tax little cigars and cigarettes identically, and some states tax little cigars
at a lower rate than cigarettes. The second strongest correlation is between cigarette taxes and percent smokers with a correlation 
between -0.5 and -0.4 depending on the age group. There is low correlation between cigarette taxes and tobacco-related funding per capita
and between little cigar taxes and percent smokers. There is even less correlation between funding per capita and percent smokers, 
and almost no correlation between little cigar tax and funding per capita.   Therefore, for the dataset based on age, age and cigarette tax 
are likely the best modeling variables.
The correlation statistic for each of the variables against percent smokers is less than 0.3. Like the age data, the top two correlations are 
between cigarette tax and funding per capita and cigarette tax and percent smokers, respectively.


2)Logistic Regression - Base Model
3)Clustered Logistic Regression : 
  a) K-Means(K=5 and K= 15)
  
4)PCA & Logistic Regression - Model with the highest accuracy

Insights :
1) Higher cigarette taxes decrease the odds that an individual will smoke
2) Smokefree legislation restricting smoking in restaurants, bars, and hotels reduces the odds of an individual choosing to smoke
3) Policy funding has no significant impact on smoking rates.

Recommendations :
1)States should maintain high taxes on cigarettes to reduce smoking rates
2)States should continue to explore smokefree indoors policies
3)States should carefully analyze the success of funding for tobacco programs


